02_chassis_design/README.md, before:

# Parameters
The chassis of the robot will be designed such that
- All selected components are easily mounted/unmounted
- The chassis is easily reproduced using any ordinary 3D printer
- Impact will not damage the frame
- Weight will not prevent the motors from functioning as expected
- Ventilation prevents overheating of any temperature-sensitive components

# Chassis
The chassis I'm currently working with is this:
![Goose V4 Chassis](https://github.com/lznfjv/goose/blob/main/chassis_design/assets/chassis.png?raw=true)

This was created in Autodesk Fusion, and designed for easy printing on most common 3D printers. I've used ASA for its strength and UV resistance, but this could just as easily be produced with ABS or even PLA.

Lots of mounting holes are available, sized for M2 heat-set inserts. Heat-set inserts will allow the user to mount and unmount components as many times as they would like without worry of wearing out the threading on the 3D print itself. The inserts I use can be found here:
https://www.amazon.com/dp/B088QJG676

Each of the primary selected components has its own designated spot, with measurements taken to ensure precise mounting and no additional strain on the components.

The STEP file of the part is included.

Commit message:

Modify chassis_design chapter to include chassis v5 model, updated images, f3d archive files, and a camera mounting bracket

02_chassis_design/README.md, after:

# Parameters
The chassis of the robot will be designed such that
- All selected components are easily mounted/unmounted
- The chassis is easily reproduced using any ordinary 3D printer
- Impact will not damage the frame
- Weight will not prevent the motors from functioning as expected
- Ventilation prevents overheating of any temperature-sensitive components

# Chassis

![Goose V5 Chassis](https://github.com/lznfjv/goose/blob/main/chassis_design/assets/chassis.png?raw=true)

This was created in Autodesk Fusion, and designed for easy printing on most common 3D printers. I've used ASA for its strength and UV resistance, but this could just as easily be produced with ABS or even PLA. The Fusion archive file is provided for easy modification, but the STEP file should be all you need to print.

Lots of mounting holes are available, sized for M2 heat-set inserts. Heat-set inserts will allow the user to mount and unmount components as many times as they would like without worry of wearing out the threading on the 3D print itself. The inserts I use can be found here:
https://www.amazon.com/dp/B088QJG676

Each of the primary selected components has its own designated spot, with measurements taken to ensure precise mounting and no additional strain on the components.

# Camera Mount

![Camera Mount](https://github.com/lznfjv/goose/blob/main/chassis_design/assets/camera_mount.jpg?raw=true)


Additionally, I've provided a camera mount that was designed for the de-housed camera sensor module from the USB webcam linked in the previous chapter.

This mount is designed to be attached to the front of the Goose Chassis v5 using M2 screws and the aforementioned heat-set inserts. Heat-set inserts can also be used on the upper setion of the mount to retain the camera module, or hex nuts can be used at the rear of the mount to secure the module.

The Fusion (.f3d) archive file is provided such that you may modify the mount to fit any other camera modules if desired.
